# CYCLON.AI

## Objetives
Our project seeks to develop a new and innovative hurricane detection method-ology based on deep learning.  Our algorithm is trained with images providedby NASA’s aqua and terra satellites

**What did you develop?**<br/>
    Hurricanes currently pose an eminent threat of natural disaster. The early detection of hurricanes through deep learning will allow the implementation of preventive measures with more anticipation and with valuable information to determine the impact characteristics of the hurricane. In addition, this system can be automated to develop an alert system for predictions.

**Why is it important?**<br/>
The detection of hurricanes provides a series of deep-rooted benefits to the prevention and mitigation of damages that these weather events generate. Also, artificial intelligence models like this one can be easily scaled to detect other events.

**What does it do?**<br/>
Cyclone.AI is an artificial intelligence capable of receiving satellite images of rainfall on the globe on a friendly platform that allows detection and predictions of possible hurricanes on earth.

**How does it work?**<br/>
It is an artificial intelligence that took images of the "GIBS API" of NASA's Terra & Aqua missions. The photographic images were taken from the year 2000 to the present year taking into account all the most known hurricanes to date and recorded in the images to build the training model in a convolutional neural network of ResNet architecture.

**What do you hope to achieve?**<br/>
The scope of our project that is currently a powerful prototype and scalable enough to integrate on different platforms. Our ideal is to integrate it directly into the decision making of geospatial earth monitoring platforms and receive video analysis, images in real time. Eventually, correlation models will be inserted that can indicate the economic impact with the size of the hurricane detected, the trajectory prediction and variables of the country to which it is heading.

**What inspired your team to choose this challenge?**<br/>
Initially we value taking advantage of the information generated by NASA's satellites in order to mitigate losses due to natural disasters and be prepared, taking into account the damage caused when a Hurricane is inserted on land, economic expenses can be reduced and better prepared for contingencies mainly in an automated way not only for NASA and geospatial agencies, but also for humanity through different platforms to which they have access.

**What was your approach to developing this project?**<br/>
Predict and detect the formation of hurricanes in an automated way through artificial intelligence with images taken from space missions on precipitation on Earth.

**What tools, coding languages, hardware, software did you use to develop your project?**<br/>
We used an electronic whiteboard for the problem understanding phase to brainstorm about the possibilities we have with the information provided by NASA and GBIS. For the structuring and evaluation of the project for 8 hours we use the agile Kanban methodology. The programming language with which the project is written is python through the Tensorflow API to extract architecture from artificial intelligence models for the construction of the prototype and validate its feasibility. The hardware used was an Nvidia Geforce GTX1050TI graphics card to speed up the training process through Pycharm's programming and development interface and streamlit framework for demonstration.

**What problems and achievements did your team have?**<br/>
At the team level, communication and creativity are somewhat affected by social distancing, but it was a phase that we managed to overcome, however, the biggest problem was the extraction and conversion of data from the GIBS satellite images to use. In our analysis, it took more than 70\% of our time, but having well-structured data the results are extraordinary and do not represent an obstacle to the development of the project.

**How did you use space agency data in your project?**<br/>
The data played a fundamental role in the development of the artificial intelligence model and its subsequent training, thanks to the images (they were extracted from GIBS, NASA's Terra and Aqua missions). The process carried the conversion of the format used for the visualization in the GIBS platform to jpg, for an easy use of images in the model that were segmented to recognize the formation of hurricanes from the images.

# How to use model
The project uses an architecture of a pre-trained ResNet type model offered by Tensorflow 2.2.0. In the [Trained model workspace] file (current URL to navigate). It will also be necessary to install the configuration files and installation process of [Tensorflow API Object Detection] (https://github.com/tensorflow/models) in the same working directory.

This file must be added to the root directory of your workbench in order to test the model.

(The workspace is hosted on another platform, because it stores the synaptic weights of learning from the artificial network)

If you want to use a graphical interface, you can use Streamlit by executing the following command:

```
streamlit run main.py
```
